:memo:Update lando guide (#2240)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/development/local/lando.md

- [Lando Platform.sh plugin documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/config/platformsh.html) and [source code](https://github.com/lando/platformsh)
- [Lando documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/)

## Before you begin

You need hardware that meets the [requirements](https://docs.lando.dev/getting-started/installation.html#hardware-requirements).

Lando doesn't automatically pull and set up environment variables that have been set in the Console.
To use a build hook that requires environment variables, manually [add them](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/config.html#environment-variables).

## 1. Install Lando

Follow the [Lando installation instructions](https://docs.lando.dev/getting-started/installation.html).

## 2. Initialize Lando

{{< codetabs >}}

---
title=On a new Platform.sh project without code
file=none
highlight=false
---

For a quicker start, create a project based on the Platform.sh [PHP template](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/php).
The template provides the most basic configuration for running a custom PHP project built with Composer.
It also includes the required Platform.sh configuration files out of the box.

> 1. [Create a new project based on the PHP template](https://console.platform.sh/projects/create-project/template?query=php). <!-- TODO: The link probably has to change to have a specific source and campaign for everything `utm` -->

Author: Wouldn't it be better to include some utm? (see linked slack conversation)?
Or should that be turned into an issue for future work?

> 1. [Create a new project based on the PHP template](https://console.platform.sh/projects/create-project/template?query=php). <!-- TODO: The link probably has to change to have a specific source and campaign for everything `utm` -->

Reviewer: I don't think it's something that should be blocking this issue. It's something that if we do it should be global.

> 1. [Create a new project based on the PHP template](https://console.platform.sh/projects/create-project/template?query=php). <!-- TODO: The link probably has to change to have a specific source and campaign for everything `utm` -->

Author: Created #2260 for future reference and removed the tracking link.

2. Clone that project locally with Platform.sh [CLI](../../gettingstarted/introduction/own-code/cli-install.md) `platform get <PROJECT_ID>` or with [git](../../administration/web/_index.md#git).
3. In the project's folder, run `lando init --recipe platformsh --source platformsh`.
4. Follow the instructions provided by the interactive prompt.
On the `Which project?` step, select the project created in the first step.

<--->

---
title=On an existing Platform.sh project
file=none
highlight=false
---

If your code isn't present locally, retrieve your codebase with one of these methods:

- Using the [Platform.sh CLI](../../gettingstarted/introduction/own-code/cli-install.md) by running `platform get <PROJECT_ID>`

> - Using [git](../../administration/web/_index.md#git)

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Make the other way like this?

This description with a list is clearer than the one in the other tab. Maybe have that step have a sublist?

Author: Indeed, it's much clearer with a sublist! Good catch.

Otherwise, access the directory with your project.

Run `lando init --recipe platformsh --source cwd` and follow the instructions provided by the interactive prompt.

{{< /codetabs >}}

The `init` command generates the `.lando.yml` file required to start Lando.

## 3. Start Lando

To start your app and services, run `lando start`.

## 4. Access your local app

> The last lines of the previously ran `lando start` command contains URL to the different app and services.

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
The last lines of the previously run `lando start` command contains URL to the different app and services.
```

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Other possibility
```suggestion
The last lines of the `lando start` command from the previous step contains URL to the different app and services.
```

Access your app and services by opening the according URLs in your browser.

## What's next

- [Import data and download files](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/sync.html) from your remote Platform.sh site.

> - If you made changes in the Platform.sh [configuration files](../../overview/structure.md) during development, run `lando rebuild` for these to be taken into account in Lando.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Because it's about next steps and what might happen in the future, this is possible
```suggestion
- If you make changes in the Platform.sh [configuration files](../../overview/structure.md) during development, run `lando rebuild` for these to be taken into account in Lando.
```

Author: Sounds better indeed  :)

## Troubleshooting

- Make sure that the [Platform.sh configuration files](../../overview/structure.md) are present in your local repository.
- Check that your [services](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/config.html#services-yaml) are supported by Lando.
- Check [caveats and known issues](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/caveats.html).
- Carefully check the output of the Lando commands you run to spot warnings and errors.
- Run `lando rebuild`.
- Restart Lando in debug mode by running `lando restart -vvv`.
- Check that you don't face common issues, such as [DNS rebinding protection](https://docs.lando.dev/help/dns-rebind.html).
- For more extensive troubleshooting, check the [Lando documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/help/logs.html#install-logs).

### Access logs

Access the global logs by running `lando logs`.

To access specific logs:

1. Run `lando list` to get a list of the services you are using.
2. Choose the one you'd like to inspect.
3. Run `lando logs -s <SERVICE_TO_INSPECT>`.

For more guidance regarding logs, check the [Lando logs documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/help/logs.html)

> ### Untrusted SSL certificate

Reviewer: :clipboard: Add `[Uu]ntrusted` to `Vocab/Platform/accept.txt`

- By using the Platform.sh [CLI](../../gettingstarted/introduction/own-code/cli-install.md) with `platform get <PROJECT_ID>`.
- Via [git](../../administration/web/_index.md#git).

Otherwise, access the directory where your project is located.

Run `lando init --recipe platformsh --source cwd` and follow the instructions provided by the interactive prompt.

{{< /codetabs >}}

Lando requires a `.lando.yml` file to be able to start. The `init` command used, generated that file automatically.

## 3. Start Lando

Run `lando start` to start your app and services.

## 4. Access your local app

The last lines of the previously ran `lando start` command contains:

``` bash
Your app has started up correctly.
Here are some vitals:

 NAME          <PROJECT_NAME>
 LOCATION      /Users/<USER>/<PATH_TO_PROJECT>
 SERVICES      <SERVICE_NAMES>
 APP URLS      http://localhost:62177
               http://<APP_NAME>.lndo.site/
               https://<APP_NAME>.lndo.site/
               http://www.<APP_NAME>.lndo.site/
               https://www.<APP_NAME>.lndo.site/
```

Access your app and services by opening the returned `APP URLS` in your browser.

## What's next

> [Import data and download files](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/sync.html) from your remote Platform.sh site.

Reviewer: This should be an unordered list

> weight: 3

Reviewer: I'd suggest a description here.

To have these variables set automatically, install the Platform.sh [CLI](../../gettingstarted/introduction/own-code/cli-install.md).

Alternatively, you can set the `$PLATFORMSH_CLI_TOKEN` and `$PLATFORMSH_SITE_NAME` environment variables manually.

Familiarity with the Lando [CLI commands](https://docs.lando.dev/cli/) is recommended but not necessary.

Depending of your hardware, running the commands below can take a while.
Check the [hardware requirements](https://docs.lando.dev/getting-started/installation.html#hardware-requirements) before attempting this guide.

## Installation

See the [Lando documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/getting-started/installation.html) for installing and setting up Lando on your system.

### Get started with Lando

The following examples are based on the [PHP template](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/php).

Several stacks are available on Lando (LAMP, LEMP, MEAN).
If you use a specific stack, adapt the steps below accordingly.
See the [Lando documentation for all recipes and stacks available](https://docs.lando.dev/).

> Lando requires a `.lando.yml` file. The `init` command can generate that file automatically.

Reviewer: It's good to introduce the idea of this file. It shouldn't be at the start of this section. It should be a description of the result you get from the `init` command.

The idea with how-tos/tutorials is to lead with what people have to do. I wouldn't start with information that isn't necessary to know to do the task/complete the tutorial.

> The full output of the commands below have been redacted for brevity.

Reviewer: Definitely a good idea not to include everything.

I'd push even farther and say we possibly don't even need the output at all. It's like taking screen shots of a third-party tool -- they're likely to go out of date and we don't want to maintain them. This tool is in beta, so the output could easily change. I'm not sure I see the full value in having the output here.

If it were to be included, I would not have the sentence be part of the steps (like with the config file above).

**TODO: fix the Lando init step for both paths + remove the need for the prompt (just add a note) + add stack + add cloning of the PHP base project**

{{< codetabs >}}

---

> title=On a new project

Reviewer: This seems potentially confusing as I can see multiple scenarios:
* I have a Platform.sh project with code
* I have a Platform.sh project with no code yet
* I don't have a Platform.sh project, but I have code
* I don't have a Platform.sh project or code

And "project" isn't completely clear to me whether its in Platform.sh or on my local machine or what. So more clarity on that would help (probably before they get to this step.

file=none
highlight=false
---

Run `lando init --recipe platformsh --source platformsh` and follow the instructions provided by the interactive prompt.

``` bash

> $ lando init --source platformsh

Reviewer: This is different than the command that introduces this code block.

> ? Select a Platform.sh account <email address of your account>

Reviewer: As I mentioned on another PR recently, this isn't the right format for variables. I'm not sure it's necessary at all here, though :shrug:

? Which project? <project name>
```

<--->

---
title=On an existing project
file=none
highlight=false
---

Open a shell and access the directory where your project is located.

Enter `lando init --recipe platformsh --source cwd` and follow the instructions provided by the interactive prompt.

``` bash

> $ lando init --source platformsh --source cwd --webroot .

Reviewer: This is different than the command that introduces this code block.

? From where should we get your app's codebase? current working directory

> ? What recipe do you want to use? platformsh

Reviewer: These appear even when you use the flags with the command?

? Select a Platform.sh account <email address of your account>
? Which project? <project name>
```

{{< /codetabs >}}

> Once the command ran successfully, you get the following:

Reviewer: As above, I'm not sure the specific output is as valuable as a description of what should happen.

``` bash
   _  __                       _
  / |/ /__ _    __  _    _____( )_______
 /    / _ \ |/|/ / | |/|/ / -_)// __/ -_)
/_/|_/\___/__,__/  |__,__/\__/ /_/  \__/

  _________  ____  __ _______  _______  _      ______________ __  ___________  ______
 / ___/ __ \/ __ \/ //_/  _/ |/ / ___/ | | /| / /  _/_  __/ // / / __/  _/ _ \/ __/ /
/ /__/ /_/ / /_/ / ,< _/ //    / (_ /  | |/ |/ // /  / / / _  / / _/_/ // , _/ _//_/
\___/\____/\____/_/|_/___/_/|_/\___/   |__/|__/___/ /_/ /_//_/ /_/ /___/_/|_/___(_)

Your app has been initialized!

Go to the directory where your app was initialized and run lando start to get rolling.
Check the LOCATION printed below if you are unsure where to go.

Oh... and here are some vitals:

>  NAME      <project name>

Reviewer: This isn't a variable and so shouldn't really be formatted this way. To approach this in a tutorial way, it should have example values that are clearly examples.

But again, not sure it's necessary to have this block at all.

 RECIPE    platformsh
 DOCS      https://docs.lando.dev/config/platformsh.html
```

Once it completes, run `lando start` to start your app and services.

``` bash
$ lando start
Let's get this party started! Starting app <app name>...
...
```

Once the command ran successfully, you get the following:

``` bash

   ___                      __        __        __     __        ______
  / _ )___  ___  __ _  ___ / /  ___ _/ /_____ _/ /__ _/ /_____ _/ / / /
 / _  / _ \/ _ \/  ' \(_-</ _ \/ _ `/  '_/ _ `/ / _ `/  '_/ _ `/_/_/_/
/____/\___/\___/_/_/_/___/_//_/\_,_/_/\_\\_,_/_/\_,_/_/\_\\_,_(_|_|_)

Your app has started up correctly.
Here are some vitals:

 NAME          <project name>
 LOCATION      /Users/<your user>/<path to your project>
 SERVICES      <list of your service's names>
 APP URLS      http://localhost:62177
               http://<app name>.lndo.site/
               https://<app name>.lndo.site/
               http://www.<app name>.lndo.site/
               https://www.<app name>.lndo.site/
```

Access your app and services by opening the `APP URLS` in your browser.

For more examples, see the [getting started page](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/getting-started.html).

> ## Configuring lando

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Lando
```

> Lando configuration is located in [the `.lando.yml` file](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/config.html).

Reviewer: What would I maybe want to configure? If there's not something specific here, then I'm not sure this section needs to be here. It could just be in a general What's next? section

> If you changed your [`.platform.app.yaml`](../../configuration/app/_index.md), [`.platform/routes.yaml`](../../configuration/routes/_index.md) configuration files, run `lando rebuild` for the changes to be taken into account.

Reviewer: I'm not sure how this relates to Lando configuration.

I'd also say it should probably be present tense -- it's not something that happened before previous steps.

> ### Untrusted SSL certificate

Reviewer: Why is this part of Lando configuration?
It seems like maybe part of troubleshooting?

Is it a necessary part of getting started? Do we need to include the context here?

> By default, when accessing your local Lando sites through `https` you get an error message in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when accessing your local Lando sites through HTTPS, get an error message in your browser.
```

This is expected behavior:

> Lando uses its own Certificate Authority (CA) to sign the certificates for each service and to ensure that these certs are trusted on the internal Lando network.
However, while Lando will automatically trust this CA internally it's up to you to trust it on your host machine. Doing so alleviates browser warnings regarding the certificates issued.

Find out how to solve it in [Lando's Blog](https://lando.dev/blog/2020/03/20/_5-things-to-do-after-you-install-lando/).

## Common tasks

> **TODO: clarify that part + test**

Reviewer: Why is it necessary to test? What needs to be clarified?

I feel like a lot of this is just part of a what's next section that we don't need to feel responsible for at all.

- [Update](https://docs.lando.dev/help/updating.html#_1-do-a-lando-rebuild)
- [Sync](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/sync.html)

> More usage examples of the `.lando.yml` file [can be found in GitHub](https://github.com/lando/platformsh/tree/main/examples)

Reviewer: I wouldn't say "more" examples when there aren't any here :wink:

## Troubleshooting

- Make sure that the platform config files (`.platform.app.yaml`, `.platform/routes.yaml`) are present in your local repository.

> - Check that the [services and languages](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/config.html#services-yaml) defined in your `.platform.app.yaml` are supported by Lando.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check that your services are [supported by Lando](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/config.html#services-yaml).
```

Given only one language is possible, I think we can leave that out.

> - Check the [caveats and known issues](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/caveats.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check [caveats and known issues](https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/caveats.html).
```

- Carefully check the output of the Lando commands you run to spot warnings and errors.
- Run `lando rebuild`.

> - Restart Lando in debug mode `lando restart -vvv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Restart Lando in debug mode by running `lando restart -vvv`.
```

> - Check that you don't face a common issues, as the [dns-rebind](https://docs.lando.dev/help/dns-rebind.html) for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check that you don't face common issues, such as [DNS rebinding protection](https://docs.lando.dev/help/dns-rebind.html).
```

> - Check the [Lando documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/help/logs.html#install-logs) for more extensive troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For more extensive troubleshooting, check the [Lando documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/help/logs.html#install-logs).
```

I'm not sure why the specific heading is linked to for more general troubleshooting (not the logs below)

### Access the logs

> Run `lando list` to get the list of services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `lando list` to get a list of services.
```
I would not start with this as without context it's not clear why it's present. Maybe it would help if it was `a list of services you're using` or something.

> Access specific logs with `lando logs -s <service to inspect>`, or access the global logs with `lando logs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access specific logs with `lando logs -s <service to inspect>` or access the global logs with `lando logs`.
```
I'd assume global logs first and then services.

> For more guidance regarding the logs, [check the Lando documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/help/logs.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more guidance regarding logs, check the [Lando logs documentation](https://docs.lando.dev/help/logs.html)
```

### Something still wrong?

- Get in touch with Lando via [Slack](https://launchpass.com/devwithlando)

> - [Report a bug](https://github.com/lando/platformsh/issues)

Reviewer: I think all of this could be replaced with this link: https://docs.lando.dev/platformsh/support.html
